---
title: Password Philosophy (Advent of Code Day 2)
category:
link: https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/2
author:
---

## Description

### Part 1

Given a list of passwords and the corporate policy when that password was set, determine how many passwords are valid.

For example, suppose you have the following list:

```
1-3 a: abcde
1-3 b: cdefg
2-9 c: ccccccccc
```

Each line gives the password policy and then the password. The password policy indicates the lowest and highest number of times a given letter must appear for the password to be valid. For example, `1-3 a` means that the password must contain `a` at least `1` time and at most `3` times.

In the above example, `2` passwords are valid. The middle password, `cdefg`, is not; it contains no instances of `b`, but needs at least `1`. The first and third passwords are valid: they contain one `a` or nine `c`, both within the limits of their respective policies.

### Part 2

Each policy now describes two positions in the password, where `1` means the first character, `2` means the second character, and so on. Exactly one of these positions must contain the given letter. Other occurrences of the letter are irrelevant for the purposes of policy enforcement.

Given the same example list from above:

* `1-3 a: abcde` is valid: position `1` contains `a` and position `3` does not.
* `1-3 b: cdefg` is invalid: neither position `1` nor position `3` contains `b`.
* `2-9 c: ccccccccc` is invalid: both position `2` and position `9` contain `c`.

How many passwords are valid according to the new interpretation of the policies?


## Solution

### Part 1

```python
def n_valid_passwords(pwd_lst):
  return
```

### Part 2
```python
def n_valid_passwords(pwd_lst):
  return
```
